[Autogenerated] Okay, Welcome to the red shift demo within this module.
Now I'm at the red shift dashboard screen and you can see that it's a simple,
cost effective data warehouse solution, and it's managed by a W S.
So they take care of a lot of the tedious and monotonous patching in all the
other fund operations that occur on normal hosted servers.
So if I create a cluster, let's just walk through this process.
We give our cluster and identify error.
I'll leave this how it is.
And this has to be a unique key we specify are no types,
so there's scalable,
and then there's fixed and you can see it's recommended that we use our A three.
But for me, I'm gonna go ahead and use D.
C to just because it's a cheaper option for this demo.
We can specify the number of nodes we want, and you can see we can go to 32.
If we wanted to, I'll just go to to,
and they give us a summary here that shows the estimated cost per month
for the compute as well as the total storage space.
So if I scroll down to database configurations,
this is where we create our database that lives on our red shift cluster.
So I'll leave it at Dev.
We'll leave the default Port four red shift,
which is 5439 and then we create a user and password.
So I'm gonna go and give this a user name and password.
I'll scroll down to cluster permissions and expand that.
And this is where we can give our cluster permissions to
access other AWS services if we wanted it to.
So depending on our use cases,
we might want this red shift cluster to output to another service or maybe pull
information from another service that lives within a W S.
I'll lead this at blank.
You can see we're using the defaults for additional config SSHD.
But let's go ahead and take a look at what we can configure.
So network and security we specify our VPC,
and it's important to note that you cannot change the VPC
with the cluster after it's been created.
We specify a security group, a subject group and a Z,
and then we can talk about enhanced vpc routing.
And if we want it to be publicly accessible so I'll use the defaults because
that's usually a best practice that they put into place.
And I'm gonna create my cluster.
Oh, I have a bad password, and that's probably because it was super simple.
One sec, I create it and you can see that it's in a creating status.
Right now we have a red shift cluster are instantiate
types are nodes and our storage.
So if I go in here, this is where all of our cluster performance data would show.
So if we start populating our red shift tables with data warehouse data,
we could start seeing the different monitoring and
performance that goes along with it.
Now, once we do that,
what's also nice is you can run queries from within the console so you
can see we have queries and loads and then saved.
And you can save your SQL queries so you can quickly
reference them or we can go over here to editor.
And what this allows us to do is we connect to our database So we'll do, Dev.
I'll give it a W s user And then the password that I typed in
I'll connect to database and it failed.
So let me go and wait while the cluster spins up and then we'll try again.
So I'll pause really quickly and then I'll resume.
Okay, It's been a few minutes, and I just checked in my cluster says available.
So let's click on Connect, and you can see it's connecting to our database.
So once this actually connects,
you're going to see that we can perform queries on our red
shift tables from the console itself.
And there you go.
This is the query editor screen that we can use,
so this allows for a very efficient querying of our
tables that live within red shift.
Now, you're not going to be tested over this,
but it's just a really handy thing to know about.
So if you want to quickly run some queries from the console, you could do that.
Now.
We don't have any data, so I'm not going to run any queries here.
But if we wanted to,
we could actually connect our E M R Cluster that we
spun up in the previous demo, and we could even pull data from R E.
M R tables into Red Shift and then perform SQL queries on that.
Now, once again,
that's in that handling and analyzing data with AWS elastic
map produced course that's on Pluralsight.
So if you're interested in seeing how that works,
feel free to watch that course and then dive in a little bit deeper.
For now,
I just wanted to show you at how you can create a red shift cluster for
data warehouse needs within a W s and then one last thing.
Actually, before we wrap up,
you can see that you can configure cross region snapshots.
So if you want to take backups and store them in a separate region for
high availability and disaster recovery purposes,
you can configure these snapshots.
So I'm not gonna do that now because I don't want to incur any cost,
but that's an option if you want it.
So I'm gonna go ahead.
I'm gonna clean this up.
We'll end here and then we'll go ahead and move on to
looking at elastic search service within A. W s